README.md, before:

# CSE6242 - Data & Visual Analytics - Fall 2024
## Contributors

Carlos Moncada Gonzalez,  
Christian Park,  
Kenny Phan,  
Julian Johnson,  
Parker Brotman

**CSE 6242 course project on predicts fantasy football scores with an accuracy that rivals major sporting platforms**

## Desription:
This repository contains the necessary files needed to run the interactive nfl fantasy player prediction tool. Below will include the following relevant files:
- nfl_data_loader.py 
    - Helper module that helps prepare and pull the raw data used to generate the predictions
- build_nfl_model_prod.py
    - Module that is used to perform all the modeling from start to finish.
    - Includes feature engineering, model training, and generating predictions
- INCLUDE FILE NAME FOR WHATEVER IS USED FOR THE VIZ  
- requirements.txt 
    - Text file that lists out the required packages needed to use the tool properly
- verify_requirements.py 
    - Module that checks if the necessary required packages are installed in the current users working directory
- generate_nfl_prediction_data.py
    - Python script used to aggregate the csv used for the backend of the interactive tool.

The steps that are outlined below are imperative to using the tool properly.


## Installation: 
**Prerequisites**
 
	- Python 3.8+
	- Ensure you have pip or conda installed.
 
Clone the Repository

git clone https://github.com/yourusername/Team-134-CSE-6242-Project.git
cd Team-134-CSE-6242-Project




**Execution:**

***1. Setup:***

- Install Dependencies
 
	1.	Install the required Python packages: `pip install -r requirements.txt`
        - Alternatively, you can recreate the environment using conda:
            - conda env create -f environment.yml
            - conda activate team-134-project
	2.	Verify that all required packages are installed using the utility script:

This will ensure that you have the necessary packages needed to run the code using package versions this project was developed in.

***2. Preparing the data for the backend:***

This step requires running the file `generate_backend_data.py` in the terminal. Run the following command in the terminal:
```
python .\generate_nfl_prediction_data.py
```

The output of running this command should provide you a final csv that will be saved to your working directory. This csv is what will be used 
for the backend of the interactive visualization. NOTE: This will take time due to generating features and training multiple models.
If you are less concerned about the accuracy of the model, go into the "generate_backend_data.py" file and change the start date to a more recent
date ie. (2015). This should reduce run time but decrease the amount of data allowed for the model training. 

***3. Visualization Re-Produce Process***  

- This is a step-by-step process to reproduce the plots deployed at:
  - https://cse-6242-t134.github.io

- Make sure your generated_ndfl_prediction_data file run is located `fantasy_prediction_data.csv`
 Run the following command in the terminal:
```
python .\generate_nfl_prediction_plots.py
```

The output of running this command should provide you an index html file that will be saved to your working directory. This html is what will be used 
for the deployment to github pages.

Commit message:

Update README.md for plotly-dash-viz.

README.md, after:

# CSE6242 - Data & Visual Analytics - Fall 2024
## Contributors

Carlos Moncada Gonzalez,  
Christian Park,  
Kenny Phan,  
Julian Johnson,  
Parker Brotman

**CSE 6242 course project on predicts fantasy football scores with an accuracy that rivals major sporting platforms**

## Desription:
This repository contains the necessary files needed to run the interactive nfl fantasy player prediction tool. Below will include the following relevant files:
- nfl_data_loader.py 
    - Helper module that helps prepare and pull the raw data used to generate the predictions
- build_nfl_model_prod.py
    - Module that is used to perform all the modeling from start to finish.
    - Includes feature engineering, model training, and generating predictions
- INCLUDE FILE NAME FOR WHATEVER IS USED FOR THE VIZ  
- requirements.txt 
    - Text file that lists out the required packages needed to use the tool properly
- verify_requirements.py 
    - Module that checks if the necessary required packages are installed in the current users working directory
- generate_nfl_prediction_data.py
    - Python script used to aggregate the csv used for the backend of the interactive tool.

The steps that are outlined below are imperative to using the tool properly.


## Installation: 
### Prerequisites
 
	- Python 3.8+
	- Ensure you have pip or conda installed.
 
Clone the Repository

git clone https://github.com/yourusername/Team-134-CSE-6242-Project.git
cd Team-134-CSE-6242-Project




### Execution:

#### *1. Setup:*

- Install Dependencies
 
	1.	Install the required Python packages: `pip install -r requirements.txt`
        - Alternatively, you can recreate the environment using conda:
            - conda env create -f environment.yml
            - conda activate team-134-project
	2.	Verify that all required packages are installed using the utility script:

This will ensure that you have the necessary packages needed to run the code using package versions this project was developed in.

#### *2. Preparing the data for the backend:*

This step requires running the file `generate_backend_data.py` in the terminal. Run the following command in the terminal:
```
python .\generate_nfl_prediction_data.py
```

The output of running this command should provide you a final csv called *"fantasy_prediction_data.csv"* that will be saved to your working directory. This csv is what will be used 
for the backend of the interactive visualization. NOTE: This will take time due to generating features and training multiple models.
If you are less concerned about the accuracy of the model, go into the "generate_backend_data.py" file and change the start date to a more recent
date ie. (2015). This should reduce run time but decrease the amount of data allowed for the model training. 

#### *3. Visualization Re-Produce Process*

##### Visualization #1:
This is a step-by-step process to reproduce the plots deployed at:
  - https://cse-6242-t134.github.io

Make sure the data file created by *generate_nfl_prediction_data.py* is located at `fantasy_prediction_data.csv`.

 Run the following command in the terminal:
```
python .\generate_nfl_prediction_plots.py
```

The output of running this command should provide you an index html file that will be saved to your working directory. This html is what will be used 
for the deployment to github pages.

##### Visualization #2:
Make sure the data file created by *generate_nfl_prediction_data.py* is located at `fantasy_prediction_data.csv`.

 Run the following command in the terminal:
```
python .\plotly-dash-viz.py
```

The terminal output should include a line similar to the following:
```
Dash is running on http://127.0.0.1:8050/
```

Navigate to this URL in your browser.
